BIG 12 CONFERENCE — FOOTBALL CHAMPIONSHIP TIEBREAKER POLICIES
("Edward Jones Big 12 Football Championship", 2024 onward, 16 teams)
Supplied by repo owner 2026-09-11.

Beginning with the 2024 football season with 16 teams, the Big 12 football schedule does not
include a full round-robin rotation. The goal for determining the participants is to seed the
two teams with the best Conference winning percentage.

TWO-TEAM TIE
If two teams are tied for first place both teams participate in the championship game and the
winner of the game between the two teams shall be the #1 seed. If the two teams tied for the
No. 1 position did not play, the two-team tiebreaking procedures apply to determine first place.
If there is not a tie for first place, but two teams are tied for second, the two-team
tiebreaker applies and the winner is the #2 seed.

  a. Head-to-head competition among the two tied teams.
  b. Win percentage against all common conference opponents among the tied teams.
  c. Win percentage against the next highest placed common opponent in the standings (based on
     the record in all games played within the Conference), proceeding through the standings.
     When arriving at another group of tied teams while comparing records, use each team's win
     percentage against the collective tied teams AS A GROUP (prior to that group's own
     tie-breaking procedure) rather than the performance against individual tied teams.
  d. Combined win percentage in conference games of conference opponents (strength of
     conference schedule).
  e. Total number of wins in a 12-game season. Only one win against a team from the NCAA
     Football Championship Subdivision or lower division will be counted annually. Any games
     exempted from counting against the annual maximum number of football contests per NCAA
     rules (current Bylaw 17.10.5.2.1) shall not be included.
  f. Highest ranking by SportSource Analytics (team Rating Score metric) following the last
     weekend of regular-season games.
  g. Coin toss.

MULTIPLE-TEAM TIES
After one team has an advantage and is "seeded", all remaining teams in the multiple-team
tiebreaker repeat the tie-breaking procedure. If at any point the multiple-team tie is reduced
to two teams, the two-team tie-breaking procedure applies.

  a. Winning percentage in games among the tied teams:
     1. If all teams involved in the tie did not play each other, but one team defeated all
        other teams involved in the tie, that team is removed from the tiebreaker, and the
        remaining teams revert to the beginning of the applicable tiebreaker process.
     2. If all teams involved in the tie did not play each other and no team defeated all other
        teams involved in the tie, move to the next step.
  b. Winning percentage against all common conference opponents played by all other teams
     involved in the tie.
  c. Record against the next highest placed common opponent in the standings, proceeding
     through the standings. Same "collective tied teams as a group" rule as two-team step c.
  d. Combined win percentage in conference games of conference opponents.
  e. Total number of wins in a 12-game season (same FCS cap and exemptions as above).
  f. Highest ranking by SportSource Analytics (team Rating Score metric).
  g. Coin toss.
